and the leader of the lebanon-based
Hezbollah militia has promised
retaliation over the killing of a Hamas
top official in Beirut on Wednesday
Hezbollah blames Israel for the attack
although there has been no claim of
responsibility Israel generally doesn't
comment on strikes in other countries
but officials have previously said they
would Target Hamas leaders wherever they
are Hamas is classified as a terrorist
group by multiple
countries waving the Hamas flag
protesters in ramala vo their support
and anger the city in the occupied West
Bank was the hometown of Sala aruri the
high ranking Hamas official was killed
in a strike on Beirut on
Tuesday this is crazy hysterical
Revenge Revenge because Israel feels and
is experiencing a kind of
defeat and therefore it knows full well
that there's no victory for
it Salah aruri was Deputy to hamas's
leader Ismael Hana and the groups ke
liazon with Hezbollah in
Lebanon since aru's assassination in the
suburbs of Beirut Israel and Hezbollah
have continued to fire at each other
across the border an almost daily
occurrence since Israel's war with Hamas
began the political party and militant
group is backed by Iran and considered a
terrorist organization by the US Germany
and some Sunni Arab countries Israel has
not officially claimed responsibility
for the strike on Beirut but Lebanese
security sources said it was caused by
an Israeli drone Hezbollah has vowed to
retaliate calling it a serious assault
on
Lebanon if the enemy thinks of waging a
war on
Lebanon we will fight without
restraint without rules Without Limits
and without
restrictions Israel knows what I mean
the is yours Israel's main Ally the US
has said it was not informed before the
blast in Beirut Washington is now urging
restraint to keep the war contained
wanted to before we don't want to see it
widen Beyond Israel and Hamas and again
we're going to keep working with
Partners in the region to prevent that
from
happen Hezbollah has so far refrained
from escalating Beyond border skirmishes
with
Israel but this attack in the heart of
Lebanon has raised fears of an allout
War and the Israeli Army says it's on
high alert and ready for any
scenario I asked our correspondent Tanya
Kramer in Jerusalem where Israel and
Hezbollah in Lebanon are inching closer
to a fullscale war
while both sides say at least that
they're prepared for any uh scenario uh
Israeli military analysts here believe
that uh they don't want to go for a
fullon war just yet but of course this
is speculation and anything can happen
uh at this uh Point we've heard the
Hezbollah leader Hassan nraa saying that
the killing of Hamas Salah Al Ari should
not go unpunished he also also said that
uh in his speech they will fight if
Israel will extend the War uh uh to uh
Lebanon uh we heard uh from the Israeli
side the chief of staff her halevi he
was touring the northern border uh
yesterday he was saying that the
military is in a very high State uh of
Readiness but he also stressed that the
Focus right now is uh on uh Hamas so
we've seen of course since October 7 uh
many cross cross B attacks uh the
tensions have been rising constantly um
around the blue the so-called blue line
between uh Israel and uh the southern
part of Lebanon also this morning there
have been Aid sirens in uh Northern uh
Israel but uh of of course we also
understand uh that there at the moment
diplomatic efforts underway there
reports that the US Special enoy amamos
hin who has been uh the go in between
between Lebanon and Israel is expected
uh to be uh in the region and uh uh
trying again to mediate uh between
Lebanon and Israel and we had Israel's
decision this week to withdraw some of
its troops from Gaza does that mean its
fight against Hamas has now shifted to
targeting Hamas commanders outside uh
the
region well I don't think it has
completely uh shifted in that way uh
Israel has said since October 7th that
they will go after the Hamas leadership
wherever they are including uh in uh
countries or including of those that are
abroad of course the main focus is uh to
find uh the Hamas leader in Gaza Yahya
Sina what uh Israel has said that they
will uh withdrew some of the uh
reservists from Gaza that have been
fighting now in combat or other
functions in the past 3 months they will
be uh going for further training they
will be able to go uh home there are
also economic do domestic considerations
going back into the workforce there will
be a bit of a shift but again uh uh what
we are hearing from military officials
the focus is on the fight in Gaza on
Hamas and this will continue uh for many
months but also of course uh we are
hearing that the preparations uh at the
northern border are in full force uh you
should not forget that uh uh the
northern border with Lebanon um that
there are many many uh Israeli residents
that have been evacuated uh from their
Lo from their uh places from uh uh um
locations in the northern border also
for the last couple of months and this
is a situation that is not sustainable
uh for for Israel in the long term okay
thank you for that Tanya Tanya Kramer in
Jerusalem